parsers/yaml/README.md, before:

# YAML

The files in this directory provide a [YAML 1.2.2](https://yaml.org/spec/1.2.2/) compliant language implementation using Trieste. In addition to parsing YAML, we also provide the capability to output YAML event files, JSON, and canonically formatted YAML.

We validate our implementation against the official [YAML test suite](https://github.com/yaml/yaml-test-suite).

## Getting Started

To use Trieste YAML in your own codebase you will need to configure your CMake project with the `TRIESTE_BUILD_PARSERS` flag set. Trieste YAML definitions are in the `trieste::yaml` namespace, and to access them you need to include the `trieste/yaml.h` header. The YAML implementation is based around the following well-formedness definition (copied here from the header file):

```c++
inline const auto wf_tokens = Mapping | Sequence | Value | Int | Float |
  True | False | Hex | Null | SingleQuote | DoubleQuote | Plain |
  AnchorValue | Alias | TagValue | Literal | Folded | Empty | FlowMapping |
  FlowSequence;

inline const auto wf_flow_tokens = wf_tokens - (Mapping | Sequence);

inline const auto wf =
  (Top <<= Stream)
  | (Stream <<= Directives * Documents)
  | (Documents <<= Document++)
  | (Document <<= Directives * DocumentStart * (Value >>= wf_tokens) * DocumentEnd)
  | (Directives <<= (TagDirective | VersionDirective | UnknownDirective)++)
  | (TagDirective <<= TagPrefix * TagHandle)[TagPrefix]
  | (Mapping <<= MappingItem++[1])
  | (MappingItem <<= (Key >>= wf_tokens) * (Value >>= wf_tokens))
  | (FlowMapping <<= FlowMappingItem++)
  | (FlowMappingItem <<= (Key >>= wf_flow_tokens) * (Value >>= wf_flow_tokens))
  | (AnchorValue <<= Anchor * (Value >>= wf_tokens))[Anchor]
  | (TagValue <<= TagPrefix * TagName * (Value >>= wf_tokens))
  | (Sequence <<= wf_tokens++[1])
  | (FlowSequence <<= wf_flow_tokens++)
  | (SingleQuote <<= (BlockLine|EmptyLine)++[1])
  | (DoubleQuote <<= (BlockLine|EmptyLine)++[1])
  | (Literal <<= AbsoluteIndent * ChompIndicator * Lines)
  | (Folded <<= AbsoluteIndent * ChompIndicator * Lines)
  | (Lines <<= (BlockLine|EmptyLine)++)
  | (Plain <<= (BlockLine|EmptyLine)++[1])
  ;
```

The language implementation exposes the following helpers:

- `reader()` - `Reader` that parses any valid 1.2.2 YAML file and produces an AST that conforms to `yaml::wf`.
- `writer()` - `Writer` that takes a YAML AST that conforms to `yaml::wf` and produces a YAML file.
- `event_writer()` - `Writer` that takes a YAML AST and produces a YAML event file.
- `to_json` - `Rewriter` that takes a YAML AST and converts it to a JSON AST that conforms to `json::wf`.

## Using the `yamlc` Executable

One of the targets that will be written to the `dist/parsers` directory is an executable named `yamlc`. It
has the following usage information:

```
Usage: parsers/yamlc [OPTIONS] input [output]

Positionals:
  input TEXT REQUIRED         Path to the input file 
  output TEXT                 Path to the output file

Options:
  -h,--help                   Print this help message and exit
  -a,--ast TEXT               Output the AST (debugging for the reader/rewriter/writer workflows)
  -w,--wf                     Enable well-formedness checks (slow)
  --prettyprint               Pretty print the output (for JSON)
  -m,--mode TEXT:{event,json,yaml}
                              Output mode.
```

It can be used to convert YAML to one of three output formats:

- `event` a YAML event file
- `json` a JSON file (if the YAML stream has more than one document, this JSON will have multiple values at the top level)
- `yaml` a canonical YAML file. While there is no formal definition for canonical YAML, we have tried to produce a file that would be easily parseable by the majority of YAML parsers.

> **Note**
> Our implementation is CRLF aware and compatible, in that if the input file contains CRLF line endings they
> will be handled correctly and preserved in the output.

Commit message:

Adding the `Fuzzer`class, `NodeRange` -> `span`, and WF contexts. (#114)
Adding the `Fuzzer`class, `NodeRange` -> `span`, and WF contexts.

This commit adds a new `Fuzzer` class, which encapsulates the logic from `Driver` and allows
it to be applied to the new `Reader`, `Writer`, and `Rewriter` classes. Another global change
is the addition of a stack of wellformedness contexts. By creating a `WFContext` object, it is possible to have nested Trieste pass ranges execute. This allows a Trieste pass to execute another Trieste pass as part of its execution (e.g. to parse
a string using the JSON parser and the convert the resulting AST to a language-specific format).
Finally, this commit changes `NodeRange` to be a `std::span` (NB an equivalent class is provided for
C++17).

**YAML**
- Fixed a bug with block indents that contain YAML or JSON
- Fixed a bug where a colon is immediately adjacent to the start of a flow construct
- Fixed a bug with colons immediately adjacent to values inside flow constructs
- Fixed an overeager error message for comments that look like mapping keys
- Fixed a bug with bad aliases in `to_json`

**JSON**
- Added `unescape` and `escape` functions for handling JSON strings
- Added a symbol table to `Object` and a `Key` token to make JSON ASTs easier to use

**Misc**
- Added some code to mitigate situations in which P(c | d, p) is uniform during fuzzing.
- Added `find_first` and `contains` methods on `Node` which implement `Token` specific logic.
- Added `postparse` and `output_wf` properties for `Reader`
- Added `input_wf`, `output_wf` and `passes` properties for `Rewriter`
- Added `input_wf` and `passes` properties for `Writer`

Signed-off-by: Matthew A Johnson <matjoh@microsoft.com>

parsers/yaml/README.md, after:

# YAML

The files in this directory provide a [YAML 1.2.2](https://yaml.org/spec/1.2.2/) compliant language implementation using Trieste. In addition to parsing YAML, we also provide the capability to output YAML event files, JSON, and canonically formatted YAML.

We validate our implementation against the official [YAML test suite](https://github.com/yaml/yaml-test-suite).

## Getting Started

To use Trieste YAML in your own codebase you will need to configure your CMake project with the `TRIESTE_BUILD_PARSERS` flag set. Trieste YAML definitions are in the `trieste::yaml` namespace, and to access them you need to include the `trieste/yaml.h` header. The YAML implementation is based around the following well-formedness definition (copied here from the header file):

```c++
inline const auto wf_tokens = Mapping | Sequence | Value | Int | Float |
  True | False | Hex | Null | SingleQuote | DoubleQuote | Plain |
  AnchorValue | Alias | TagValue | Literal | Folded | Empty | FlowMapping |
  FlowSequence;

inline const auto wf_flow_tokens = wf_tokens - (Mapping | Sequence);

inline const auto wf =
  (Top <<= Stream)
  | (Stream <<= Directives * Documents)
  | (Documents <<= Document++)
  | (Document <<= Directives * DocumentStart * (Value >>= wf_tokens) * DocumentEnd)
  | (Directives <<= (TagDirective | VersionDirective | UnknownDirective)++)
  | (TagDirective <<= TagPrefix * TagHandle)[TagPrefix]
  | (Mapping <<= MappingItem++[1])
  | (MappingItem <<= (Key >>= wf_tokens) * (Value >>= wf_tokens))
  | (FlowMapping <<= FlowMappingItem++)
  | (FlowMappingItem <<= (Key >>= wf_flow_tokens) * (Value >>= wf_flow_tokens))
  | (AnchorValue <<= Anchor * (Value >>= wf_tokens))[Anchor]
  | (TagValue <<= TagPrefix * TagName * (Value >>= wf_tokens))
  | (Sequence <<= wf_tokens++[1])
  | (FlowSequence <<= wf_flow_tokens++)
  | (SingleQuote <<= (BlockLine|EmptyLine)++[1])
  | (DoubleQuote <<= (BlockLine|EmptyLine)++[1])
  | (Literal <<= AbsoluteIndent * ChompIndicator * Lines)
  | (Folded <<= AbsoluteIndent * ChompIndicator * Lines)
  | (Lines <<= (BlockLine|EmptyLine)++)
  | (Plain <<= (BlockLine|EmptyLine)++[1])
  ;
```

The language implementation exposes the following helpers:

- `reader()` - `Reader` that parses any valid 1.2.2 YAML file and produces an AST that conforms to `yaml::wf`.
- `writer()` - `Writer` that takes a YAML AST that conforms to `yaml::wf` and produces a YAML file.
- `event_writer()` - `Writer` that takes a YAML AST and produces a YAML event file.
- `to_json` - `Rewriter` that takes a YAML AST and converts it to a JSON AST that conforms to `json::wf`.

## Using the `yamlc` Executable

One of the targets that will be written to the `dist/parsers` directory is an executable named `yamlc` (which will
only be built if the `TRIESTE_BUILD_PARSER_TOOLS` flag is set). It has the following usage information:

```
Usage: parsers/yamlc [OPTIONS] input [output]

Positionals:
  input TEXT REQUIRED         Path to the input file 
  output TEXT                 Path to the output file

Options:
  -h,--help                   Print this help message and exit
  -a,--ast TEXT               Output the AST (debugging for the reader/rewriter/writer workflows)
  -w,--wf                     Enable well-formedness checks (slow)
  --prettyprint               Pretty print the output (for JSON)
  -m,--mode TEXT:{event,json,yaml}
                              Output mode.
```

It can be used to convert YAML to one of three output formats:

- `event` a YAML event file
- `json` a JSON file (if the YAML stream has more than one document, this JSON will have multiple values at the top level)
- `yaml` a canonical YAML file. While there is no formal definition for canonical YAML, we have tried to produce a file that would be easily parseable by the majority of YAML parsers.

> **Note**
> Our implementation is CRLF aware and compatible, in that if the input file contains CRLF line endings they
> will be handled correctly and preserved in the output.
