samples/verona/readme.md, before:

# Todo

LLVM lowering
- `new`
- `copy` and `drop` on `Ptr` and `Ref[T]`
- dynamic function lookup
  - Ptr, Ref[T], primitive types
- region types, cowns, `when`

autocreate ignores field initializers if there's already a `create` method. this seems wrong.

dispatch
- static vs dynamic
- no static type based overloading
- `::name` as a scoped name, meaning lookup only, no lookdown phase

- is the `refparams` pass unnecessary? `drop` handles it?
- remove arity ambiguity by including arity `N` in function names
- remove CallLHS by including `ref` in function names
- check for conflicting field names, conflicting function arity
- free variables in object literals
- mixins
- match
- lazy[T]
- weak[T]?
- public/private
- package schemes
- list inside TypeParams, Params, TypeArgs along with groups or other lists

## Future Passes

- type checking
- reachability
- selector coloring
- monomorphization

## Key Words

get rid of capabilities as keywords
- make them types in `std`?
- or just handle those `typename` nodes specially in the typechecker?

## Lambdas

type of the lambda:
- no captures, or all captures are `const` = `const`, `self: const`
- any `lin` captures = `lin`, `self: lin`
- 0 `lin`, 1 or more `in`, 0 or more `const` = `lin`, `self: in`
- don't know if any `out` captures

## Destructuring Binds and `lin`

if a tuple field is `lin`, it's not `lin` in the destructuring bind
if the tuple itself is also `lin`, can we make this work?
the same thing happens with lambda captures

## Type Inference

T0 <: T1 => T0.upper += T1, T1.lower += T0

`bind $0 $T0 (reflet $1)`
- '$1 <: $T0
`bind $0 $T0 (tuple (reflet $1) (reflet $2))`
- ('$1, '$2) <: $T0
- *tuple flatten?*
`bind $0 $T0 (lambda ...)`
- 'lambda <: $T0
- *free variables? problem is moving `lin`*
`bind $0 $T0 (call (functionname f[$T1]) (args (reflet $1) (reflet $2)))`
- ('f[$T1] <: '$1->'$2->$T0)
`bind $0 $T0 (call (selector f[$T1]) (args (reflet $1) (reflet $2)))`
- ('f[$T1] <: '$1->'$2->$T0) ∨ ('$1 <: { f[$T1]: '$1->'$2->$T0 })
`bind $0 $T0 (conditional (reflet $1) lambda1 lambda2)`
- 'lambda1 <: ()->$T1
- 'lambda2 <: ()->$T2
- ($T1 | $T2) <: $T0
`typeassert $0 $T0`
- '$0 <: $T0

typeof (reflet $0) =
- dup(node->lookup()->at(wf / Bind / Type)) // dup drops `lin`?
typeof (move $0) =
- node->lookup()->at(wf / Bind / Type) // no dup

A `var` field has both a `ref` accessor function and a non-`ref` accessor function. A `let` field has only a non-`ref` accessor field. This means a `var x: T1` field is a subtype of a `let x: T2` field if `T1 <: T2`. However, a `var x: T1` field is only a subtype of a `var x: T2` field if `(T1 <: T2) ∧ (T2 <: T1)`, because the `ref` accessors return `ref[T1]` and `ref[T2]` respectively.

## Lowering

- mangled names for all types and functions
- struct for every concrete type
- static and virtual dispatch
- heap to stack with escape analysis
- refcount op elimination

## Ellipsis

`expr...` flattens the tuple produced by `expr`
- only needed when putting `expr...` in another tuple

`T...` is a tuple of unknown arity (0 or more) where every element is a `T`
- `T...` in a tuple flattens the type into the tuple
- `T...` in a function type flattens the type into the function arguments

```ts
// multiply a tuple of things by a thing
mul[n: {*(n, n): n}, a: n...](x: n, y: a): a
{
  match y
  {
    { _: () -> () }
    { y, ys -> x * y, mul(x, ys)... }
  }
}

let xs = mul(2, (1, 2, 3)) // xs = (2, 4, 6)
```

## Lookup

lookup in union and intersection types

may need to check typealias bounds during lookup
- `type foo: T` means a subtype must have a type alias `foo` that's a subtype of `T`.

## param: values as parameters for pattern matching

named parameters
- (group ident type)
- (equals (group ident type) group*)
pattern match on type
- (type)
pattern match on value
- (expr)

Commit message:

any function with an llvm literal turns off memory management

samples/verona/readme.md, after:

# Todo

LLVM lowering
- llvm and memory management
  - lambdas with LLVM literals may need LLVM function types?
  - calling a function with an LLVM type also turns off memory management?
- could parse LLVM literals late, allowing expr that lift to reflet and not just ident
- `new`
- `copy` and `drop` on `Ptr` and `Ref[T]`
- dynamic function lookup
  - Ptr, Ref[T], primitive types
- region types, cowns, `when`

autocreate ignores field initializers if there's already a `create` method. this seems wrong.

dispatch
- static vs dynamic
- no static type based overloading
- `::name` as a scoped name, meaning lookup only, no lookdown phase

- is the `refparams` pass unnecessary? `drop` handles it?
- remove arity ambiguity by including arity `N` in function names
- remove CallLHS by including `ref` in function names
- check for conflicting field names, conflicting function arity
- free variables in object literals
- mixins
- match
- lazy[T]
- weak[T]?
- public/private
- package schemes
- list inside TypeParams, Params, TypeArgs along with groups or other lists

## Future Passes

- type checking
- reachability
- selector coloring
- monomorphization

## Key Words

get rid of capabilities as keywords
- make them types in `std`?
- or just handle those `typename` nodes specially in the typechecker?

## Lambdas

type of the lambda:
- no captures, or all captures are `const` = `const`, `self: const`
- any `lin` captures = `lin`, `self: lin`
- 0 `lin`, 1 or more `in`, 0 or more `const` = `lin`, `self: in`
- don't know if any `out` captures

## Destructuring Binds and `lin`

if a tuple field is `lin`, it's not `lin` in the destructuring bind
if the tuple itself is also `lin`, can we make this work?
the same thing happens with lambda captures

## Type Inference

T0 <: T1 => T0.upper += T1, T1.lower += T0

`bind $0 $T0 (reflet $1)`
- '$1 <: $T0
`bind $0 $T0 (tuple (reflet $1) (reflet $2))`
- ('$1, '$2) <: $T0
- *tuple flatten?*
`bind $0 $T0 (lambda ...)`
- 'lambda <: $T0
- *free variables? problem is moving `lin`*
`bind $0 $T0 (call (functionname f[$T1]) (args (reflet $1) (reflet $2)))`
- ('f[$T1] <: '$1->'$2->$T0)
`bind $0 $T0 (call (selector f[$T1]) (args (reflet $1) (reflet $2)))`
- ('f[$T1] <: '$1->'$2->$T0) ∨ ('$1 <: { f[$T1]: '$1->'$2->$T0 })
`bind $0 $T0 (conditional (reflet $1) lambda1 lambda2)`
- 'lambda1 <: ()->$T1
- 'lambda2 <: ()->$T2
- ($T1 | $T2) <: $T0
`typeassert $0 $T0`
- '$0 <: $T0

typeof (reflet $0) =
- dup(node->lookup()->at(wf / Bind / Type)) // dup drops `lin`?
typeof (move $0) =
- node->lookup()->at(wf / Bind / Type) // no dup

A `var` field has both a `ref` accessor function and a non-`ref` accessor function. A `let` field has only a non-`ref` accessor field. This means a `var x: T1` field is a subtype of a `let x: T2` field if `T1 <: T2`. However, a `var x: T1` field is only a subtype of a `var x: T2` field if `(T1 <: T2) ∧ (T2 <: T1)`, because the `ref` accessors return `ref[T1]` and `ref[T2]` respectively.

## Lowering

- mangled names for all types and functions
- struct for every concrete type
- static and virtual dispatch
- heap to stack with escape analysis
- refcount op elimination

## Ellipsis

`expr...` flattens the tuple produced by `expr`
- only needed when putting `expr...` in another tuple

`T...` is a tuple of unknown arity (0 or more) where every element is a `T`
- `T...` in a tuple flattens the type into the tuple
- `T...` in a function type flattens the type into the function arguments

```ts
// multiply a tuple of things by a thing
mul[n: {*(n, n): n}, a: n...](x: n, y: a): a
{
  match y
  {
    { _: () -> () }
    { y, ys -> x * y, mul(x, ys)... }
  }
}

let xs = mul(2, (1, 2, 3)) // xs = (2, 4, 6)
```

## Lookup

lookup in union and intersection types

may need to check typealias bounds during lookup
- `type foo: T` means a subtype must have a type alias `foo` that's a subtype of `T`.

## param: values as parameters for pattern matching

named parameters
- (group ident type)
- (equals (group ident type) group*)
pattern match on type
- (type)
pattern match on value
- (expr)
