samples/infix/beyond-infix.md, before:

# Beyond Infix

The Infix language is a useful introduction to Trieste, but by its very nature as an introductory tutorial, it cannot cover more advanced concepts.
This extended tutorial covers those less-documented Trieste features, while chronicling key aspects of editing an existing Trieste-based language implementation.

Our task at hand is to extend Infix with some more advanced concepts: multiple language versions, tuples, functions (both user-defined and built-in), and destructuring assignments.
Each of these topics explores a potential difficulty and how Trieste helps resolve it:
- Multiple language versions: given time, any programming language will change, and with multiple versions "in the wild", implementations may have to accept more than one of them.
  Correctly implementing something like this also helps us manage the collection of language extensions we explore in this document, which is why we look into this first.
- Tuples: a simple form of compoud data, which has interesting syntactic interactions with the existing Infix features.
- Functions: a source of diverse scoping problems we can resolve in different ways using the tools provided by Trieste.
- Destructuring assignments: introducing a new kind of definition with complex scoping rules might seems like it requires a refactor.
  We show how such problems can be avoided in Trieste.

## Multiple Language Versions

Because a core goal of this project is to handle multiple divergent extensions of Infix, we should explain the options we have available to do this.
Most commonly, multiple versions of a language follow an evolution, where one version is a superset of the other, or a specific behavior is changed but all other features stay the same.
In Trieste, this means that we can write mostly-shared code between language versions, and when building our pass structure we can accept parameters that indicate whether a given feature should be enabled or disabled.
Ideally, this choice can be restricted to a small number, or perhaps even just one, pass that translates the possible variations into a common form that can pass through the rest of the compiler without further special cases.

The Infix tooling implements the remainder of this document using the technique above, by defining the complete resulting language in its WF definitions, then selectively disabling and altering passes in order to add and remove language features.
This means that by default a given pass either supports or ignores every Infix extension.
Feature-specific changes are annotated, and we will walk you through them as you read on.

To help identify and possibly ignore features you don't want to look at yet, the Well-Formedness (WF) definitions are written in a deliberately redundant style that looks like this:
```cpp
const auto wf =
  (Top <<= Calculation)
  | (Calculation <<= (Assign | Output)++)
  | (Assign <<= Ident * Expression)[Ident]
  | (Output <<= String * Expression)
  | (Expression <<= (Add | Subtract | Multiply | Divide | Ref | Float | Int))
  | (Ref <<= Ident)
  | (Add <<= Expression * Expression)
  | (Subtract <<= Expression * Expression)
  | (Multiply <<= Expression * Expression)
  | (Divide <<= Expression * Expression)
  // --- tuples extension ---
  | (Expression <<= (Tuple | TupleIdx | TupleAppend | Add | Subtract | Multiply | Divide | Ref | Float | Int))
  | (Tuple <<= Expression++)
  | (TupleIdx <<= Expression * Expression)
  | (TupleAppend <<= Expression * Expression)
  // ...
  ;
```

At the top, you can see the original Infix definitions untouched.
Below, marked by `--- tuples extension ---`, you can see repeated definitions that include the added feature, tuples in this case.
In this case, the tuples feature leaves many things alone (assignments, output, etc are not touched), but overrides the `Expression` well-formedness so that it includes the added tuple expressions.
Other definitions do similar things, partially overriding the definitions above it.

A reader focusing on earlier parts of this document can safely ignore the definitions below, and read the simpler language as-is.
Similarly, rules mentioning the ommitted constructs can be ignored.
If you write programs that use only features you know, rules regarding unknown features are unreachable.
The implementation will also reject inputs that use features they are not supposed to, and defaults to the original Infix language.

Note that not all language designs support this kind of layering.
Some design decisions went into ensuring the implementation was easy to follow as you read the tutorial, as opposed to supporting all variations of a feature, and we leave exploring those possibilities as an exercise for the reader.
One such feature is removing the requirement that functions are defined before they are used - many popular programming languages allow definitions in any order, and so can we with a little effort.
For more of a challenge, consider that with this feature it becomes possible to write recursive, or even mutually recursive, functions.
Either detect and reject that case as an error, or try implementing recursive function evaluation.


Ideas:
- Allow feature flags at the top of the input file? Well, that means you need to support the cross-product of all features.
  Could work, but also quite messy in this case because some of the changes we propose are... drastic.
- Tree of language levels, where each level implies another level on which it is based.
  This solves the need to deal with every feature interaction that might be possible, at the expense of requiring all-or-nothing compliance.
- For this document, a core concern is being able to read all the different versions.
  If you can't do that, use a different strategy.
- Structure A: express changes as diffs on the `wf` value, etc etc.
  - Have multiple conditional copies of the pass sequence, with appropriate changes.
  - Existing passes that need altering should have extra parts mentioned explicitly... could use a marker node in the tree to gate the nodes.
    You can write unreachable patterns for "future" stuff as long as they don't conflict with the "old" versions.
  - Main downside is that we need to make lots of programmatic changes to the Trieste setup.
    Not the worst, but it deviates from the Infix setup a lot.
- Structure B: build version tags into one WF uber-definition.
  - Can make a gate node that must be parented to the rest of the tree for features to even be WF-available.
    As in `(my-feature (rest of program w/ feature))` operator| `(rest of program but can't name feature)`.
    Works specifically because there is a hierarchy of features, would be madness if we want a feature matrix.
  - Pass structure is gated on whether the feature is there, with positive and negative parent lookups if necessary to handle divergent behavior.
  - We could end up with lots of weird conditional nonsense if we're not careful, but maybe the orthogonality of features will save us from that?
- Structure C: give up and duplicate (sub-)trees of the source code.
  - Doesn't really solve the multiple language versions problem, but I did also just add this in because of the readability issue, so... hmm.
  - Maximally readable
  - Hard to maintain, Ctrl^C + Ctrl^V :(

## Tuples in Infix

Notes:
- it's possible to get lost combining tuple and call parsing

Ideas:
- `(a, b, ...)` (note: do in parser, or have a `,` token and resolve with a pass)
- `a, b, ...` (note: interpret `,` as a binop? trouble with distinguishing tuples of tuples vs wider tuples?)
- consider more exotic delimiters? (`<<>>` from TLA+, or something)
- append, fst, snd type builtins (without explicit fns?)
- how might one implement a "prelude"? (omni-present collection of definitions that are implicitly available everywhere)

## n Ways to Design Functions

Ideas:
- call as name + syntactic tuple? e.g. `fn(a, b, ...)`
- what if the parameter position of a function call is special, e.g., named parameters or special markers?
- only currying? `fn a b ...` (function application becomes an invisible operator, which is interesting)
- first or second-class? How much does it cost to switch? (first class trivially subsumes second class, but we have to reject more programs... going second class to first class requires a fun desugaring, which you can just about do with tuples)
- lazy params (don't start with this one, but it's a nasty stress test to add it as a feature... rip off Scala's trick if we do, probably)

## Pattern Languages Lite: Destructuring Assignments

Ideas:
- Pattern in assignment, and possibly function argument position, to match and extract values from tuples, however we did tuple syntax.
- Discuss the magic `_` everyone uses.
- Can we use values (literals at least) in pattern position, as a kind of assertion? How expensive is that to change?

Commit message:

WIP: more error handling, more thorough bfs testing

samples/infix/beyond-infix.md, after:

# Beyond Infix

The Infix language is a useful introduction to Trieste, but by its very nature as an introductory tutorial, it cannot cover more advanced concepts.
This extended tutorial covers those less-documented Trieste features, while chronicling key aspects of editing an existing Trieste-based language implementation.

Our task at hand is to extend Infix with some more advanced concepts: multiple language versions, tuples, functions (both user-defined and built-in), and destructuring assignments.
Each of these topics explores a potential difficulty and how Trieste helps resolve it:
- Multiple language versions: given time, any programming language will change, and with multiple versions "in the wild", implementations may have to accept more than one of them.
  Correctly implementing something like this also helps us manage the collection of language extensions we explore in this document, which is why we look into this first.
- Tuples: a simple form of compoud data, which has interesting syntactic interactions with the existing Infix features.
- Functions: a source of diverse scoping problems we can resolve in different ways using the tools provided by Trieste.
- Destructuring assignments: introducing a new kind of definition with complex scoping rules might seems like it requires a refactor.
  We show how such problems can be avoided in Trieste.

## Multiple Language Versions

Because a core goal of this project is to handle multiple divergent extensions of Infix, we should explain the options we have available to do this.
Most commonly, multiple versions of a language follow an evolution, where one version is a superset of the other, or a specific behavior is changed but all other features stay the same.
In Trieste, this means that we can write mostly-shared code between language versions, and when building our pass structure we can accept parameters that indicate whether a given feature should be enabled or disabled.
Ideally, this choice can be restricted to a small number, or perhaps even just one, pass that translates the possible variations into a common form that can pass through the rest of the compiler without further special cases.

The Infix tooling implements the remainder of this document using the technique above, by defining the complete resulting language in its WF definitions, then selectively disabling and altering passes in order to add and remove language features.
This means that by default a given pass either supports or ignores every Infix extension.
Feature-specific changes are annotated, and we will walk you through them as you read on.

To help identify and possibly ignore features you don't want to look at yet, the Well-Formedness (WF) definitions are written in a deliberately redundant style that looks like this:
```cpp
const auto wf =
  (Top <<= Calculation)
  | (Calculation <<= (Assign | Output)++)
  | (Assign <<= Ident * Expression)[Ident]
  | (Output <<= String * Expression)
  | (Expression <<= (Add | Subtract | Multiply | Divide | Ref | Float | Int))
  | (Ref <<= Ident)
  | (Add <<= Expression * Expression)
  | (Subtract <<= Expression * Expression)
  | (Multiply <<= Expression * Expression)
  | (Divide <<= Expression * Expression)
  // --- tuples extension ---
  | (Expression <<= (Tuple | TupleIdx | TupleAppend | Add | Subtract | Multiply | Divide | Ref | Float | Int))
  | (Tuple <<= Expression++)
  | (TupleIdx <<= Expression * Expression)
  | (TupleAppend <<= Expression * Expression)
  // ...
  ;
```

At the top, you can see the original Infix definitions untouched.
Below, marked by `--- tuples extension ---`, you can see repeated definitions that include the added feature, tuples in this case.
In this case, the tuples feature leaves many things alone (assignments, output, etc are not touched), but overrides the `Expression` well-formedness so that it includes the added tuple expressions.
Other definitions do similar things, partially overriding the definitions above it.

A reader focusing on earlier parts of this document can safely ignore the definitions below, and read the simpler language as-is.
Similarly, rules mentioning the ommitted constructs can be ignored.
If you write programs that use only features you know, rules regarding unknown features are unreachable.
The implementation will also reject inputs that use features they are not supposed to, and defaults to the original Infix language.

Note that not all language designs support this kind of layering.
Some design decisions went into ensuring the implementation was easy to follow as you read the tutorial, as opposed to supporting all variations of a feature, and we leave exploring those possibilities as an exercise for the reader.
One such feature is removing the requirement that functions are defined before they are used - many popular programming languages allow definitions in any order, and so can we with a little effort.
For more of a challenge, consider that with this feature it becomes possible to write recursive, or even mutually recursive, functions.
Either detect and reject that case as an error, or try implementing recursive function evaluation.


Ideas:
- Allow feature flags at the top of the input file? Well, that means you need to support the cross-product of all features.
  Could work, but also quite messy in this case because some of the changes we propose are... drastic.
- Tree of language levels, where each level implies another level on which it is based.
  This solves the need to deal with every feature interaction that might be possible, at the expense of requiring all-or-nothing compliance.
- For this document, a core concern is being able to read all the different versions.
  If you can't do that, use a different strategy.
- Structure A: express changes as diffs on the `wf` value, etc etc.
  - Have multiple conditional copies of the pass sequence, with appropriate changes.
  - Existing passes that need altering should have extra parts mentioned explicitly... could use a marker node in the tree to gate the nodes.
    You can write unreachable patterns for "future" stuff as long as they don't conflict with the "old" versions.
  - Main downside is that we need to make lots of programmatic changes to the Trieste setup.
    Not the worst, but it deviates from the Infix setup a lot.
- Structure B: build version tags into one WF uber-definition.
  - Can make a gate node that must be parented to the rest of the tree for features to even be WF-available.
    As in `(my-feature (rest of program w/ feature))` operator| `(rest of program but can't name feature)`.
    Works specifically because there is a hierarchy of features, would be madness if we want a feature matrix.
  - Pass structure is gated on whether the feature is there, with positive and negative parent lookups if necessary to handle divergent behavior.
  - We could end up with lots of weird conditional nonsense if we're not careful, but maybe the orthogonality of features will save us from that?
- Structure C: give up and duplicate (sub-)trees of the source code.
  - Doesn't really solve the multiple language versions problem, but I did also just add this in because of the readability issue, so... hmm.
  - Maximally readable
  - Hard to maintain, Ctrl^C + Ctrl^V :(

## Tuples in Infix

Notes:
- it's possible to get lost combining tuple and call parsing
- "stuck terms" and the original version of the code; explain that you can do sometimes error handling in 1 pass but it doesn't really scale once you have many ways to fail (TODO: edits to the original tutorial, where there is only one way to have an evaluation succeed and cause an error (e.g. `1 / (1-1)`))
- p.s. and splitting one pass into 2 can cause `String * (Foo >>= Literal | Expression)` because one term becomes a `|`. Warn people for now, plot design improvements later.

Ideas:
- `(a, b, ...)` (note: do in parser, or have a `,` token and resolve with a pass)
- `a, b, ...` (note: interpret `,` as a binop? trouble with distinguishing tuples of tuples vs wider tuples?)
- consider more exotic delimiters? (`<<>>` from TLA+, or something)
- append, fst, snd type builtins (without explicit fns?)
- how might one implement a "prelude"? (omni-present collection of definitions that are implicitly available everywhere)

## n Ways to Design Functions

Ideas:
- call as name + syntactic tuple? e.g. `fn(a, b, ...)`
- what if the parameter position of a function call is special, e.g., named parameters or special markers?
- only currying? `fn a b ...` (function application becomes an invisible operator, which is interesting)
- first or second-class? How much does it cost to switch? (first class trivially subsumes second class, but we have to reject more programs... going second class to first class requires a fun desugaring, which you can just about do with tuples)
- lazy params (don't start with this one, but it's a nasty stress test to add it as a feature... rip off Scala's trick if we do, probably)

## Pattern Languages Lite: Destructuring Assignments

Ideas:
- Pattern in assignment, and possibly function argument position, to match and extract values from tuples, however we did tuple syntax.
- Discuss the magic `_` everyone uses.
- Can we use values (literals at least) in pattern position, as a kind of assertion? How expensive is that to change?
